README.md, before:

# Prerequsities

Install the next tools:
* `node`
* `yarn`
* `near-cli`

Also, you'd need a code editor of choice. In this course we are going to use Visual Studio Code.

## Create project structure

The next directories and files must be created to proceed with smart contracts:
* assembly/ - this directory contains smart contracts source code
* asconfig.json - contains most of configuration properties
* assembly/tsconfig.json

### `asconfig.json`
By default it's needed to add the next content to the file. By adding this, we just extend the configuration provided by `near-sdk-as`.
```
{
    "extends": "near-sdk-as/asconfig.json"
}
```

### `assembly/tsconfig.json`
The purpose of this file is to specify compiler options and root level files that are necessary for a TypeScript project to be compiled.
Also, this file implies that the directory where `tsconfig.json` is located is the root of the TypeScript project.
```
{
  "extends": "../node_modules/assemblyscript/std/assembly.json",
  "include": [
    "./**/*.ts"
  ]
}
```

### `as_types.d.ts`
This files declares that some type names must be included in the compilation. In this case, names are imported from `near-sdk-as`
```
/// <reference types="near-sdk-as/assembly/as_types" />
```

## Initialize project

Run the next commands in a terminal window (in the project's root):
```
yarn init
```
It will create a `package.json` file where development dependencies can be added.


Run the next command to add `near-sdk-as` to the project:
```
yarn add -D near-sdk-as
```

The next step is to create an entry file for the smart contract - create `index.ts` file in the `assembly` directory.
The resulting project structure should be like this:
```
├── asconfig.json
├── assembly
│   ├── as_types.d.ts
│   ├── index.ts
│   └── tsconfig.json
├── package.json
└── yarn.lock
```

# Compile, build and deployt the smart contract

## Compile & build a smart contract
Before a smart contract can be deployed, it must be built as `.wasm`. 
To do that, the next command should be run from the project's root:
```
yarn asb
```

The output of this command is a `.wasm` file that is placed into `${PROJECT_ROOT}/build/release` directory.

## Deploy a smart contract
To deploy a smart contract, run the next command from in a terminal window:
```
near deploy ${PATH_TO_WASM} --accountId=${ACCOUNT_NAME}
```
where:
* `${ACCOUNT_NAME}` - an account name that should be used to deploy a smart contract
* `${CONTRACT_NAME}` - an account name that should be used for the contract (we will use the same value as for `${ACCOUNT_NAME}`)
* `${PATH_TO_WASM}` - a path to the `.wasm` file issued by the `yarn asb` command - `${PROJECT_ROOT}/build/release/some_name.wasm`

## Contract interaction

There are two types of functions in `near`:
* `view` functions are used to read state hence they are free. Nothing is modified/persisted when a `view` function is called.
* `call` functions are used to modify state of the data stored in the blockchain.

Commit message:

added a login to account section to the readme

README.md, after:

# Prerequsities

Install the next tools:
* `node`
* `yarn`
* `near-cli`

Also, you'd need a code editor of choice. In this course we are going to use Visual Studio Code.

## Create project structure

The next directories and files must be created to proceed with smart contracts:
* assembly/ - this directory contains smart contracts source code
* asconfig.json - contains most of configuration properties
* assembly/tsconfig.json

### `asconfig.json`
By default it's needed to add the next content to the file. By adding this, we just extend the configuration provided by `near-sdk-as`.
```
{
    "extends": "near-sdk-as/asconfig.json"
}
```

### `assembly/tsconfig.json`
The purpose of this file is to specify compiler options and root level files that are necessary for a TypeScript project to be compiled.
Also, this file implies that the directory where `tsconfig.json` is located is the root of the TypeScript project.
```
{
  "extends": "../node_modules/assemblyscript/std/assembly.json",
  "include": [
    "./**/*.ts"
  ]
}
```

### `as_types.d.ts`
This files declares that some type names must be included in the compilation. In this case, names are imported from `near-sdk-as`
```
/// <reference types="near-sdk-as/assembly/as_types" />
```

## Initialize project

Run the next commands in a terminal window (in the project's root):
```
yarn init
```
It will create a `package.json` file where development dependencies can be added.


Run the next command to add `near-sdk-as` to the project:
```
yarn add -D near-sdk-as
```

The next step is to create an entry file for the smart contract - create `index.ts` file in the `assembly` directory.
The resulting project structure should be like this:
```
├── asconfig.json
├── assembly
│   ├── as_types.d.ts
│   ├── index.ts
│   └── tsconfig.json
├── package.json
└── yarn.lock
```

# Compile, build and deployt the smart contract

## Compile & build a smart contract
Before a smart contract can be deployed, it must be built as `.wasm`. 
To do that, the next command should be run from the project's root:
```
yarn asb
```

The output of this command is a `.wasm` file that is placed into `${PROJECT_ROOT}/build/release` directory.

## Login to an account in a shell
In order to deploy a contract from via terminal, account's credentials are needed. 
To get the credentials, run the next command in a terminal window:
```
near login
```
It opens a wallet url in a browser where you can login to your account (or selected one of the existing accounts if you have one).
As the result the session in the terminal window is authenticated and you can start deploying contracts and view/call functions.

## Deploy a smart contract
To deploy a smart contract, run the next command from in a terminal window:
```
near deploy ${PATH_TO_WASM} --accountId=${ACCOUNT_NAME}
```
where:
* `${ACCOUNT_NAME}` - an account name that should be used to deploy a smart contract
* `${CONTRACT_NAME}` - an account name that should be used for the contract (we will use the same value as for `${ACCOUNT_NAME}`)
* `${PATH_TO_WASM}` - a path to the `.wasm` file issued by the `yarn asb` command - `${PROJECT_ROOT}/build/release/some_name.wasm`

## Contract interaction

There are two types of functions in `near`:
* `view` functions are used to read state hence they are free. Nothing is modified/persisted when a `view` function is called.
* `call` functions are used to modify state of the data stored in the blockchain.
